Civil War Letters Project
Coding and Digital Archives, Fall semester 2023

PROJECT ASSESSMENT

This is another project in the Inaugural Addresses/State of the Union projects tradition (fall 2021 and 2022, respectively). The goal was to mark up the text of a number of surviving personal letters from both sides in the American Civil War of the early 1860s, including not only the normal metadata (author, recipient, date, etc.) but more importantly the emotional content of the sentences in the body of each letter. This content was then color-coded to appear on the website in the reading view--with two pages, one for Union letters and one for Confederate letters--but then also tacked over time through bar graphs in SVG, generated by XSLT stylesheets from the markup in the XML documents.

The team faced two particular headwinds. First, due to some general discombobulation in the course, the class was late in starting the project itself. Second, after another project did not get off the ground, members of that team were rolled into this team. While this contributed more available person-hours of work, that contribution was partially mitigated by the challenges of incorporating new members into a project that was already in operation. In the end it was only possible to complete the project such as it is with a higher degree of divide-and-conquer (which is to say, with each student being less broadly trained) than is ideal; but a completed project it remains, and that is no small thing.

There are a number of ways the project should have been taken further, and probably would have been if it were not for the aforementioned headwinds.

First, the markup consists of 21 letters. For a team that wound up having six students, this is not a large source base, if we compare it to past project teams, most of them only three students in size. Had the project started earlier, it is easy to envision each student marking up at least an additional five letters, bringing the total markup to fifty letters or more. This might have made the project a more representative sample of Union and Confederate sentiments over the course of the war, which is ostensibly the goal of the project.

Second, in the current presentation, it is not possible to see the change over time within each "region" (Union and Confederate sides). There is a Timeline feature that in theory correlates major events of the war with the letters. What would have been interesting would be seeing the positive/negative emotions of Union soldiers matched up chronologically with those of their Confederate counterparts, correlated with Union and Confederate victories/losses in the war, to see whether the changing tides of the war were reflected in the changing emotional tone of the letters.

To be fair, the three graph pages were entirely the work of one student on the team, the only one who learned how to write XSLT to generate SVG graphs, while another student workes solo on the timeline. A visualization such as this would have taken more hands on it, more co-ordination, more time, and more cross-training (i.e. less divide-and-conquer). On the positive side, this leaves a functional core of a project to which a future team could contribute by adding letters, features, and further visualizations.

-Dr. Campbell, 12/18/2023