2nd Div. Hospital 9th
Corps Near Petersburg.Va.Aug.22nd 1864
Dear Mother.

     Yes. I am at last in the hospital. I hated to tell you for you will think I am quite sick which is not the case. I have got sort of tired out. All I need is a chance to rest and I will be all right in a few days. I am not so sick as most of our boys have to be to get to the rear. Our Regt. has moved since I wrote you but I have not been quite up with the Regt. since they got down here. I should think I was some three miles from where I was when I wrote before, to the left.
     Yesterday I was out here by the amputating table when many of the wounded were brought in. And I saw them cut off any number of hands and feet. Poor fellows. Several of them died right away



after having been operated upon. For awhile yesterday the cannonading was truly terrific. I miss the sound of musketry. I can hear the cannons here if they have an engagement. The quiet seems rather good on the whole. still it seems a little lonesome. The 5th Corps did some good fighting and took a pretty good lot of prisoners, mostly S. Carolinians and stout hard looking fellows. Pretty much the whole of the 16th ME. were captured Col. Tilden [i.e., Lt. Col. Charles W. Tilden, 16th Maine Infantry] among the rest. I dont know any in particular that were taken. I saw Mr. Balkan their Chaplain yesterday. As regards the war news you get that by the papers long before a letter gets there. I will just say that we have the Weldon railroad and if old Lee gets it back he has something of a job before him. The 5th Corps were fortifying very strongly on the railroad and a part of the 2nd Corps came down

as a support yesterday, and I was told that Butler's corps was back of us but I think that a mistake. I came here today but before I came I got six letters. One from you and Delinda [i.e., Delinda Jackson] and one from Sergt. Arnold [i.e., Sgt. Lloyd Q. Arnold, Co. D, 32nd Maine Infantry]. those were all I cared for at all. the others were business letters and business has but few charms for me as I feel now. I feel all the interest in the business at home that I ever did but this business here is not of a kind to make one love it. I was very pleased as usual to hear from you -- to get a letter written by your own hand. I dont know what I should do if I did not hear from home oftener than a great part of our boys do. I am here to fight for those at home that I love and if they did not prize my services, and life it may, sufficiently to write to cheer me I fear I should sink. I agree with you that it is mostly unpleasant here but there are some pleasant things even here sometimes There never was such a campaign before
since the creation of the world as we have been passing through this season. I trust it is the last such one the world will ever know like it. I hope to be spared to return to you and I feel as if I should but this world is not intended as a state of perfect bliss. Thank God. He has prepared a world of perfect bliss and I trust we will both enjoy it. We will if I am not deceived in my hope. I love to look forward to our meeting on earth. I shall be so glad to see you and clasp you in my arms once more. Every thing about there seems pleasant by contrast to think of even those that I used to dislike. I wish they would rush the men down here and I believe this thing might be settled up pretty soon. I expect to be able to go back to the Regt. in a few days but I dont intend to hurry. I dont feel that our Regt has been used right. that makes a difference with me.

Your affectionate son
John

Please write often. remember how well soldiers love to hear from their mothers.