"Island Home,"
Feb 5" 1865

My dear cousin Mattie:

     Yours of the 18" ulto. reached me yesterday. Its kind and cheerful tone at once drove away all gloomy thoughts and dispelled the dark clouds that had been hovering over me for the past few days. would that I could get such letters every day. it would render even prison life endurable -- I am greatly rejoiced to learn that my pleasur letters aford you pleasure -- I much feared that they would prove too great a tax upon your "patience" I write you every week, generaly on Sunday -- "Job was indeed a patient man, but you must recolect that he lived in times of Peace, and I do not believe he had any relations at all. I wrote you imediately upon the recept of the box returning thanks &c -- which I hope has reached you ere this. I can see that cake now, with "Mattie" impressed in large gilt letters upon its sufrice -- It will not be forgotten soon -- You did right to trust in "providence," He will always reward those who put their trust in Him. Many thanks dear Mattie for the $$ -- I much confess that I was really in need of a small supply of funds at the time, My washers & cooks bills coming in at once quite exhausted my stock, leaving my Pipe cold and my supply of stationary completely exhausted. But you must recolect these little things I shall claim the right hereafter of returning the favor. I do not meet with such friends often and shall take good care that these acts of kindness shown me in this, my hour of need meet with proper reward -- "It is bread cast upon the waters" -- I am under special obligation dear cousin for writing to my Uncle -- I have written to him time and again since I have been a prisoner but met with no success -- I wrote by way of Paducah & Mayfield to the care of merchants living at these places -- which party claim that portion of Tennessee lying between the Tennessee and Missippi rivers? containing the counties of Henry & Weakley? -- I have just received a letter from my brother in Raleigh n.c. saying he had shipped me a box of provisions in Oct. last. I am in luck. Cousin Mattie will you send me your Photo.? Do please -- You know I have not seen you since you were a little girl -- forgive me for writing so small -- I had just so many lines & I wished to put in all my [illeg] -- did you get the "ballad"

Your Affectionate Cous,
James B. Jordan,

Page 2      Images: 150 DPI – 100 DPI – 72 DPI

Miss Mattie Fearn
"Hunters Bottom"
Milton, Ky,