Columbus Ohio
Aug 25, 1863

My dear Mattie

     Just a few moments since a letter was received by John from you, through the kindness of our mutual friend Genl Buckner, which was sent to Genl Burnside's to be forwarded. You cant imagine the gratification it gave us to hear of from our dear sister Mattie, aside from the pleasure plainly demonstrated by her husband. How anxiously we look forward to the arrival of the Mails, & ravenously do we devour its contents. It is the very greatest pleasure we have— I have no doubt ere this you have heard of our imprisonment in the Ohio State Penitentiary. About the 1st of Aug. about 70 officers of our command, were removed to this place. At first our confinement was almost unbearable, but since we have been found to be gentlemen (as expressed by the Penitentiary Warden) we have been treated exceedingly well. On Sunday's we are confined in our cells all day, excepting 2 hours in the morning & one in the afternoon, the balance of the week we are permitted to be together from 7 A M till 6 P. M. which gives us plenty of time to converse & exercise; We also have the priviledge (those who have "Green Backs") of purchasing whatever delicasies in the shape of eadibles & under clothing we want. Taking into consideration the clenliness conveniences & many other luxuries which we have here, I have no doubt that we are better off than any other p Confederate prisoners now in confinement in the U S. barring the idea of being in a Penitentiary. for which we care very little. being put here for merely stealing Horses, We receive letters daily from our friends at home, generally accompanied with a box of something nice to eat. The only thing aside from our imprisonment of which we complain, is the want of outer garments, which priviledge is granted those in other prisons. this restriction I hope will soon be removed if properly represented to the officer regulating this matter. We hear from Ma daily. At first she suffered no doubt inexpressebly—but since she finds that we are so comfortable, & in such fine spirits, her suffering has been relieved proportionately. She writes almost daily to all of us, & speaks of visiting us soon. which priviledge I trust may be granted her, Basil Charlton & I saw her at Cincinnatti for an hour, when we first arrived there. Genl Burnside granted this priviledge in consideration of some little kindness shown his ADC. Capt Pell by myself when a prisoner at our Head Quarters at the battle of Manassas when chief of Staff of Genl A. P. Hill— In your letter you ask "What has become of Foster Cheatham" I can tell you, he is now sitting in front of my apartments looking fatter and better than you ever saw him. I am almost ashamed to admit it, but really I am glad that he is a prisoner. he is such good company for us. I wrote Genl Hill from this place some time since, but whether the letter reached him, I cant say. so please write Dolly as soon as you get this. and direct your letter to care I. Booton Hill Richmond Va. giving her all the news. we have all I believe written to Tommy. You do so also if you please, which I know you will do — Charlton is in daily communication with Miss Williams, & I with somebody else, not quite so often as once a day, but fully as satisfactory, I have a nice present for you, which I hope to deliver in person soon in shape of a carte de visique of somebody

Very afby
R C. Morgan

Love to Sister Alice