Camp Dogwood
Augst 30th 1861

Dear Mother,

     I recd the letter by B Hamner yesterday evening together with the "one thing needful". I am satisfied if you knew the pleasure you would give me by writing oftener and longer letters you would certainly take time and afford me the gratification. I suppose you have recd my letter informing you of the receipt of the "Chest" so it gave the boys no trouble. Since writing my last as I had anticipated we have had two battles. Floyd [i.e., Brig. Gen. John Buchanan Floyd] fought and defeated the enemy near Summersville [i.e., skirmish at Cross Lanes, Virgina, 26 August 1861] killing 60 and taking 101 prisoners while he suffered a loss of only 3 killed and twenty

Page 2      Images (pages 2 & 3): 150 DPI – 100 DPI – 72 DPI

wounded. We took a company of "Ohio University Volunteers" from Oberlin University, it was reported last night that he had taken 60 more making a total of 161. On the 25th (Sunday) the enemy (600 strong) caught about 75 of our cavalry in an ambush killing 3 and wounding 18 [i.e., skirmish near Piggott's Mill, Virginia], the news reached us about 12 oclock.M. Our regiment was formed and doublequicked 6 1/2 miles, but Lo! when we reached the battle ground the terrified Yankees had fled after their glorious victory a few hours before. We are now within 2 1/2 miles of the enemy, having thrown up entrenchments and await an attack which I fear will never come. The superior officers say we

Page 3      Images (pages 2 & 3): 150 DPI – 100 DPI – 72 DPI

can hold this place with 500 men against any force the enemy can send. They wont fight a fair fight but like cowardly indians fight in the bushes and not then unless they number 6 to one. Our boys have lately had several severe conflicts with the chickens and pigs in the neighbourhood, they are a savage race and gave indications of biting our boys, but Southern pluck was not to fall before so trifling a foe one of our men has just returned from the battle field bearing off seven of the wounded enemy. It is really amusing to see the Union mens fighting stock sacraficed to gratify the greedy maws of half fed veterans. We are now, and have been for a week on half rations, it is right hard

Page 4      Images: 150 DPI – 100 DPI – 72 DPI

to be sure but cant he helped just now and we are willing to submit to almost any hardship for the good of a cause on the success of which rests the rights and liberties of 8000000 of free men. The want of provision will I suppose be soon remedied as it is due in some degree to our hurried march and the uncertainty of the undertaking. I am sorry to hear so many of the poor wounded soldiers are dying — hope dear Mother you may be blessed with strenght and health to stand all that is required but whatever you do remember that you & father must take care of yourselves. I hear that Bob is not chained during the day I suppose it is at his own request or else incident to the excitement of the times

Page 5      Images: 150 DPI – 100 DPI – 72 DPI

Bob always did recognize the principle that "liberty is dearer than life". Oh how dearly should I like to see my two darling little brothers, I used to think them troublesome when at home, but I have forgotten it all now and frequently feel sadly grieved at my past conduct to all of you, Should I life thro' this war it will have been of vast benefit to me. I will know the importance of home and feel with a keener relish the many kind offices which so endear me it to home me.
Best love to Aunt [illeg] Millie and Grandma. Remember me to all inquiring friends. particularly to Mr & Mrs Brown & family. Before closing I must tell you I yesterday recd a letter from her majesty Julia [illeg]

Page 6      Images: 150 DPI – 100 DPI – 72 DPI

what prompted that piece of insanity I dont know, but I suppose she wished me to appreciate her literary acquirements and knew no better plan — let it go for what it's worth at a time like this our disposition should be friendly towards every one — We are all enjoying good health and working hard. I was fortunate enough to get in the mess with B Hamner and thereby secure the services of John — Kiss every one for me — Remember me kindly to Dr McGuffey in particularly he it was who tickled my vanity by calling me Colonel —

Your Affectionate Son
G J Pratt